[CAT-564] Up and running tutorial (#8)
CatenaTools/documentation: Writerside/topics/Quickstart-Up-And-Running.md

# Quickstart: Running Your Game With Catena

In this quickstart guide we will walk through how to set up and run your game on your own infrastructure using Catena Tools. 
Through this guide you will set up a backend, basic fleet manager, along with a game client and game server. This is a __Static Fleet Management Solution.__ 
This means you will have to manually provision servers, but they will report themselves to the backend.

> This tutorial will use the following Catena Components to support a Multiplayer Workflow.
>   * [Match Broker](Match-Broker.md)
>   * [Server Manager](Server-Manager.md)
>   * [Sidecar](Sidecar.md)
>   * [Matchmaking](Matchmaking.md)
>   * Infrastructure Templates

## Overview

By the end of this quickstart, you will be able to run your game, or a sample game in a multiplayer/online environment using AWS. Players will be able to:
1. Log into your game
2. Form a Party
3. Request a Match
4. Connect to a Server
5. Play a game

## Prerequisites

What you will need before following the steps in this guide.

* Access to Catena Tools

> * A Game with a client server model or the [Catena Lyra Demo](https://github.com/catenaTools/catena-lyra-demo)

Reviewer: A game with a client/dedicated game server model.

* The Catena Tools [AWS Infrastructure Template](https://github.com/CatenaTools/infrastructure/tree/main/aws/catena-core)
* [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io) V1.71 or higher
* An AWS account
* Git bash (optional)

> * A domain name that you control and can configure in route53

Reviewer: ...and can configure in [AWS Route 53](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/)

## Setup the Infrastructure

> Prior to running the Terraform code, set up a hosted zone for the domain that you will use. In the example, this will be `catenatools.com.`

Reviewer: Prior to provisioning any infrastructure, you will need to set up a hosted zone in Route 53 for the domain that you will use.

> See [Creating a public hosted zone](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/CreatingHostedZone.html). The Terraform configuration will create a few subdomain routes on this url.

Reviewer: The Terraform configuration in the AWS Infrastructure Template will create a few subdomain routes on this URL.

Next, clone the `infrastructure` repo and open it in your favorite editor. We will be working out of the `aws/catena-core/` directory.

**Git Bash**
```bash
git clone git@github.com:CatenaTools/infrastructure.git
cd infrastructure/aws
```

> This template sets up a working [dokku](https://dokku.com) instance on the domain you select, along with a few additional settings to simplify deploying and running the platform, including an IAM role for `aws ssm` logins and an Elastic IP.

Reviewer: Maybe add another line explaining why we use Dokku?

This Catena deployment utilizes Dokku to make deploying updates as simple as `git push`. You don't need to worry too much about all of the infrastructure if you don't want to. This tutorial will outline the pieces that are important for you to understand in order to get up and running.

### Configure Terraform

> The Terraform configuration defaults to using an s3 bucket to store it's state, this must be updated to an s3 bucket on your account. You may create this s3 bucket in the AWS Console.

Reviewer: Capitalize: S3

Open `terraform_config.tf` and modify the following portion to match your s3 bucket, or remove it to store state locally.

```
  backend "s3" {
      bucket  = "catena-terraform-state"
      key     = "updated-infra/terraform.tfstate"
      region  = "us-east-1"
      profile = "catena_admin"
  }
```

> Be sure to replace `bucket` with your bucket's name, `region` with your region, and `profile` with your local [aws profile](https://awscli.amazonaws.com/v2/documentation/api/latest/reference/configure/index.html).

Reviewer: Capitalize: AWS

> > If you do not need to back up or share your terraform state, you can remove the "backend" block and terraform will store it's state locally.

Reviewer: Capitalize: Terraform

ec2_ip = "100.28.26.117"
powershell_deploy_command = "$env:GIT_SSH_COMMAND='ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa -o IdentitiesOnly=yes'; git push dokku main"
unix_deploy_command = "GIT_SSH_COMMAND='ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa -o IdentitiesOnly=yes' git push dokku main"
windows_deploy_command = "set \"GIT_SSH_COMMAND=ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa -o IdentitiesOnly=yes\" && git push dokku main"
catena_url = "https://platform.dev.catenatools.com"
```

These outputs will be used to deploy the platform to your newly configured instance.

> The rest of this tutorial will use the environment variable `$CATENA_URL`. Set it to the value of the catena_url output.
> ```bash
> export CATENA_URL="https://platform.dev.catenatools.com"
> ```

### Install Catena

Installing Catena is as easy as doing a git push.

Start by cloning the `catena-tools-core` repo:

**Git Bash**
```bash
git clone git@github.com:CatenaTools/catena-tools-core.git
cd catena-tools-core/
```

Then add a new remote and do a git push, this will deploy the `HEAD` of the repo. The command to do so is the value of the `add_doku_remote_command` output.

**Git Bash**
```bash
git remote add dokku dokku@dev.catenatools.com:platform

> git push dokku HEAD:main

Reviewer: If for some reason a developer uses a key _not_ called `id_rsa`, they'll need to use the relevant `deploy_command` from the Terraform output.

## Running your game in a multiplayer configuration

Next we will use the server [Sidecar](Sidecar.md) along with our backend to support a multiplayer workflow.

> The sidecar enables you to configure your game to work with one API interface, and deploy it on multiple fleet managers. It can also make requests on behalf of the game server, enabling integrations which require zero server-side integration.

We are making some assumptions and trade-offs to simplify this guide. There is an example implementation in our [catena-lyra-demo repo.](https://github.com/CatenaTools/catena-lyra-demo/tree/main)

1. The server will be "always open" and accepting players
2. There will be only one type of match

### Setup our Game Server

We will be running our game on an AWS EC2 Instance running Windows Server, these instructions also work with a Linux server using minor modifications.

First create a key pair in the AWS console for remote access to the machine:

![access_key_quickstart](access_key_quickstart.png)

Next, configure terraform to provision an ec2 instance where we will run the server, this should be in `ec2/main.tf`

```

> resource aws_instance "server_instance" {

Reviewer: Carrying comment over from last PR. We should likely just provide this as another directory in the `infrastructure` repo rather than requiring copy/paste. I can work on that after I'm done with GameLift stuff.

Author: Sounds good, i've put it in a ticket here: https://catenatools.atlassian.net/browse/CAT-567

Reviewer: Open PR here: https://github.com/CatenaTools/infrastructure/pull/9

    root_block_device {
        volume_size = 50
    }

    vpc_security_group_ids = [var.security_group_id]
    subnet_id = var.subnets[0].id

    tags = {
        Name = "${var.workspace_prepend}Windows Server"
    
    }
}
```

Additionally, we should add additional exposed ports to the security group:

> For the purpose of this tutorial, we can add these to the existing security group, but in production it is a better choice to have 
> separate security groups for your game servers and to not expose RDP

```
    ingress {
        description = "Game Server Traffic"
        from_port   = 7777
        to_port     = 7777
        protocol    = "udp"
        cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"] 
    }

    ingress {
        description = "RDP Traffic"
        from_port   = 3389
        to_port     = 3389
        protocol    = "tcp"
        cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"]
    }

    ingress {
        description = "RDP UDP Traffic"
        from_port   = 3389
        to_port     = 3389
        protocol    = "udp"
        cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"]
    }

```

Next plan and apply your infrastructure

```
terraform plan -var-file="vars.tfvar" 
terraform apply -var-file="vars.tfvar"
```

> Once terraform finishes, you can go to the AWS EC2 Console, click your instance, and click "Connect to instance." Under the RDP tab, download the

Reviewer: Capitalize: Terraform

          "strategy": "continuous_strategy",
          "continuous_strategy": {
            "RequestInterval": "5s"
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "resolver": {
      "use": "ec2_resolver",
      "configs": {
        "ec2_resolver": {
          "MetadataBaseUrl": "http://169.254.169.254",
          "AvailablePorts": [
            {
              "Min": 7777,
              "Max": 7777
            }
          ]
        },
        "static_resolver": {
          "Address": "server.local:8080"
        }
      }
    },
    "backend": {
      "configs": {
        "catena_backend": {
          "url": "https://platform.dev.catenatools.com"
        },
        "noop_backend": {}
      },
      "use": "catena_backend"
    },
    "sidecar": {
      "DebugPanelAddr": "localhost:8081",
      "MatchManagementStrategy": {
        "AutoPopulateIDs": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The key is to set the following fields:

`app.backend.catena_backend.url` field, which must point to your deployed instance url.
`app.resolver.configs.ec2_resolver.Min` - The min port to use for clients to connect.
`app.resolver.configs.ec2_resolver.Max` - The max port to use for clients to connect.

> _For this demo, min and max port should be the same, and be the port your server runs on. If you are following this demo, it should be `7777`

Reviewer: Missing closing `_`

## Prerequisites

What you will need before following the steps in this guide.

* Access to Catena Tools
* A Game with a client/dedicated game server model or the [Catena Lyra Demo](https://github.com/catenaTools/catena-lyra-demo)
* The Catena Tools [AWS Infrastructure Template](https://github.com/CatenaTools/infrastructure/tree/main/aws/catena-core)
* [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io) V1.71 or higher
* An AWS account
* Git bash (optional)
* A domain name that you control and can configure in [AWS Route 53](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/)

## Setup the Infrastructure

Prior to provisioning any infrastructure, you will need to set up a hosted zone in Route 53 for the domain that you will use. In the example, this will be `catenatools.com.`

See [Creating a public hosted zone](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/CreatingHostedZone.html). The Terraform configuration in the AWS Infrastructure Template will create a few subdomain routes on this URL.

Next, clone the `infrastructure` repo and open it in your favorite editor. We will be working out of the `aws/catena-core/` directory.

**Git Bash**
```bash
git clone git@github.com:CatenaTools/infrastructure.git

> cd infrastructure/aws

Reviewer: `cd infrastructure/aws/catena-core/`

```

The full Postman collection can be found [here](https://github.com/CatenaTools/catena-tools-core/tree/main/scripts). Set the http-host environment variable to your domain prior to use.

## Running your game in a multiplayer configuration

Next we will use the server [Sidecar](Sidecar.md) along with our backend to support a multiplayer workflow.

> The sidecar enables you to configure your game to work with one API interface, and deploy it on multiple fleet managers. It can also make requests on behalf of the game server reducing the burden to set up a dedicated game server.

We are making some assumptions and trade-offs to simplify this guide. There is an example implementation in our [catena-lyra-demo repo.](https://github.com/CatenaTools/catena-lyra-demo/tree/main)

1. The server will be "always open" and accepting players
2. There will be only one type of match

### Setup our Game Server

We will be running our game on an AWS EC2 Instance running Windows Server, these instructions also work with a Linux server using minor modifications.

First create a key pair in the AWS console for remote access to the machine:

> ![access_key_quickstart](access_key_quickstart.png)

Reviewer: We create this AWS keypair in the [Terraform files](https://github.com/CatenaTools/infrastructure/blob/main/aws/ec2-gameserver/ec2/main.tf#L31).

If an end user needs a local keypair to seed this, they should generate one on their machine (works on both Windows and Linux):
```
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048 -m PEM -f my_private_key_file
```

They can then find the keys to pass in to the tfvar's...
```
my_private_key_file
my_private_key_file.pub
```

Author: using the password command means we don't need this, so I will remove it instead.

Reviewer: The keys are still necessary to provision everything via Terraform. It _could_ just be inherent in the instructions we give regarding the tfvars though.

Next, configure terraform to provision an ec2 instance where we will run the server. we have provided a template for this in the `aws/ec2-gameserver` directory of the infrastructure repo.

Similar to the previous infrastructure, we must set some variables. Create another `vars.tfvar` file with the following contents:

```hcl
aws_profile="catena_admin"
aws_region="us-east-1"
game_server_os="windows"                               # Defaults to linux
ec2_instance_size="t2.medium"
ssh_private_key_path="~/.ssh/catena_deploy_key"        # Your private key
ssh_public_key_path="~/.ssh/catena_deploy_key.pub"     # Your public key
```

Next plan and apply your infrastructure

```
terraform plan -var-file="vars.tfvar" 
terraform apply -var-file="vars.tfvar"
```

> Once Terraform finishes, you can go to the AWS EC2 Console, click your instance, and click "Connect to instance." Under the RDP tab, download the

Reviewer: They can also run `terraform output -raw ec2_windows_password` to get the password instead of copy/pasting the private key.

Remote Desktop File. Then click "Get Password" and paste in the private key from the keypair you created previously.

At this point you can connect to the Windows server using RDP by opening the file and logging into the machine with the "Administrator" account and password

> from the AWS console.

Reviewer: Erroneous newline

See [Creating a public hosted zone](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/CreatingHostedZone.html). The Terraform configuration in the AWS Infrastructure Template will create a few subdomain routes on this URL.

Next, clone the `infrastructure` repo and open it in your favorite editor. We will be working out of the `aws/catena-core/` directory.

**Git Bash**
```bash
git clone git@github.com:CatenaTools/infrastructure.git
cd infrastructure/aws
```

This template sets up a working [dokku](https://dokku.com) instance on the domain you select, along with a few additional settings to simplify deploying and running the platform, including an IAM role for `aws ssm` logins and an Elastic IP.

> We set things up this way to make deploying your Catena instance as simple as running `git push`. You don't need to worry too much about all of the infrastructure if you don't want to. This tutorial will outline the pieces that are important for you to understand in order to get up and running.

### Configure Terraform

> The Terraform configuration defaults to using an S3 bucket to store it's state, this must be updated to an S3 bucket on your account. You may create this S3 bucket in the AWS Console.

Reviewer 2: Recommending a slight rephrasing so this reads more clearly with no advanced knowledge:

> The Terraform configuration defaults to using an S3 bucket to store it's state. You may create an S3 bucket in your account with the AWS Console and update the configuration or remove the S3 configuration to store state locally.

> Open `terraform_config.tf` and modify the following portion to match your S3 bucket, or remove it to store state locally.

Reviewer 2: "remove it" is ambiguous - the section or the file?

```
  backend "s3" {
      bucket  = "catena-terraform-state"
      key     = "updated-infra/terraform.tfstte"
      region  = "us-east-1"
      profile = "catena_admin"
  }
```

Be sure to replace `bucket` with your bucket's name, `region` with your region, and `profile` with your local [AWS Profile](https://awscli.amazonaws.com/v2/documentation/api/latest/reference/configure/index.html).

> If you do not need to back up or share your terraform state, you can remove the "backend" block and terraform will store it's state locally.

> Next, we need to set some specific-to-you configurations.

Reviewer 2: > set some specific-to-you configurations

Colloquialisms can make tutorials more informal (good IMO) but less accessible. We might want to rephrase this to "set some configurations specific to your game"

letsencrypt_email="example@example.com"     # The email address LetsEncrypt will send cert expiry notifications to
```

### Provision the Infrastructure

```bash
terraform init                        # Initialize the terraform backend and install modules
terraform workspace switch -or-create dev
terraform plan -var-file="vars.tfvar" # Preview the steps terraform will take
terraform apply -var-file="vars.tfvar"
```

After the apply step runs, you should see some output like this:

```
add_dokku_remote_command = "git remote add dokku dokku@dev.catenatools.com:platform"
ec2_instance_id = "i-0f47e887113bf882b"
ec2_instance_ssh_command = "aws ec2-instance-connect ssh --os-user ubuntu --instance-id i-0f47e887113bf882b --profile catena"
ec2_ip = "100.28.26.117"
powershell_deploy_command = "$env:GIT_SSH_COMMAND='ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa -o IdentitiesOnly=yes'; git push dokku main"
unix_deploy_command = "GIT_SSH_COMMAND='ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa -o IdentitiesOnly=yes' git push dokku main"
windows_deploy_command = "set \"GIT_SSH_COMMAND=ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa -o IdentitiesOnly=yes\" && git push dokku main"
catena_url = "https://platform.dev.catenatools.com"
```

> These outputs will be used to deploy the platform to your newly configured instance.

Reviewer 2: It might be worth stressing that these values should be saved somewhere for the rest of the setup or how to retrieve them. It's easy to lose track of things like this while following a guide for the first time. (Maybe we want to do something like write these out with `local_file` in the infrastructure?)

Author: This is a great idea! Maybe even create a source-able file?

remote: #4 transferring context: 51B done
remote: #4 DONE 0.0s

### Truncated for Brevity

=====> Application deployed:
       http://platform.dev.catenatools.com
       https://platform.dev.catenatools.com

To jlyon1.catenatools.com:platform
 * [new branch]      HEAD -> main
```

Now we're all set! 

> You can update your platform the same way, simply commit the changes and push them to the `main` branch on the dokku remote. The server will automatically build and deploy your changes with no downtime.

You can test your platform by logging in:

**Git Bash**
```Bash
SESSION_ID=$(curl -D - -sS --location '$CATENA_URL/api/v1/authentication/login' \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data '{
      "provider": "PROVIDER_UNSAFE",
      "payload": "test53"
  }' | grep "session-*" | cut -d' ' -f2)

curl --location '$CATENA_URL/api/v1/accounts' \
--header "session-id: $SESSION_ID" \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{}'

# {"account":{"id":"account-f378e3c2-8760-4059-ba91-69f5343dfb48","displayName":"test53","authRole":"user","metadata":{},"providers":["PROVIDER_UNSAFE"]}}
```

[//]: # (TODO: Add the link here.)

> The full postman collection can be found here. Set the http-host environment variable to your domain prior to use.

Reviewer 2: This line shows up without the TODO and is confusing - maybe we comment it out until the collection is available?

## Running your game in a multiplayer configuration

Next we will use the server [Sidecar](Sidecar.md) along with our backend to support a multiplayer workflow.

> > The sidecar enables you to configure your game to work with one API interface, and deploy it on multiple fleet managers. It can also make requests on behalf of the game server, enabling integrations which require zero server-side integration.

Reviewer 2: >  enabling integrations which require zero server-side integration

This is somewhat confusing phrasing.

Author: ```suggestion
> The sidecar enables you to configure your game to work with one API interface, and deploy it on multiple fleet managers. It can also make requests on behalf of the game server reducing the burden to set up a dedicated game server.
```

Remote Desktop File. Then click "Get Password" and paste in the private key from the keypair you created previously.

At this point you can connect to the Windows server using RDP by opening the file and logging into the machine with the "Administrator" account and password
from the AWS console.

At this point you should download and prepare to run your game on the server. Instructions for the Lyra Demo are below.

<procedure title="Lyra Game Server Installation" id="lyra_setup" collapsible="true">
    <p>These instructions use the <a href="https://github.com/catenatools/catena-lyra-demo">catena-lyra-demo</a> server.</p>
    <step>Download the server onto the machine. The download can be found <a href="https://catena-public-content.S3.amazonaws.com/WindowsServer.zip">here.</a></step>
    <step>Extract the zip file.</step>
    <step>Run the game server from command prompt: <pre>LyraServer.exe -networkversionoverride=1234 -BackendUrl=localhost:8085</pre></step>
    <step>Now the game server will communicate with the backend through the sidecar.</step>
</procedure>

## Run the Server Sidecar

> The server sidecar enables Catena to be aware of your game server without requiring any changes to the code of the game server itself. It is additionally able to make requests on behalf of your game server

Reviewer 2: > It is additionally able to make

"additionally" is modifying "it" (server sidecar) and reads a little better at the beginning of the sentence IMO:

> Additionally, it is able to make

if you so choose. The sidecar will augment connection details and can translate requests between different backends so your server only needs to implement one SDK interface. See [Sidecar](Sidecar.md) for more details.

> First download the Sidecar to the machine, the latest release can be found [here](https://github.com/CatenaTools/sidecar/releases/). Alternatively, clone and build the sidecar.

Reviewer 2: > the machine

Their machine? The game server machine?

Reviewer 2: It might be good to be more specific about downloading the precompiled windows binary since there are multiple files for the release.

> In the same directory as the sidecar, add a `config.json.` There is an example in the  sidecar repo here: https://github.com/CatenaTools/sidecar/blob/main/config.json

Reviewer 2: Being more specific about "the sidecar" here may be good - this should be adjacent to the compiled binary. (User may download/clone and build themselves.)

Reviewer 2: Missing hyperlink

    },
    "event_source": {
      "use": "catena_api_event_source",
      "configs": {
        "catena_api_event_source": {
          "GrpcListenAddr": "0.0.0.0:8080",
          "HttpListenAddr": ":8085"
        },
        "virtual_server_event_source": {
          "strategy": "continuous_strategy",
          "continuous_strategy": {
            "RequestInterval": "5s"
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "resolver": {
      "use": "ec2_resolver",
      "configs": {
        "ec2_resolver": {
          "MetadataBaseUrl": "http://169.254.169.254",
          "AvailablePorts": [
            {
              "Min": 7777,
              "Max": 7777
            }
          ]
        },
        "static_resolver": {
          "Address": "server.local:8080"
        }
      }
    },
    "backend": {
      "configs": {
        "catena_backend": {
          "url": "$CATENA_URL"
        },
        "noop_backend": {}
      },
      "use": "catena_backend"
    },
    "sidecar": {
      "DebugPanelAddr": "localhost:8081",
      "MatchManagementStrategy": {
        "OverrideConnectionDetails": true,
        "AutoPopulateIDs": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The key is to set the following fields:

> `app.backend.catena_backend.url` field, which must point to your deployed instance url.

Reviewer 2: > field, which

leftover from a previous version? Reads a little odd and is different from the subsequent lines.

`app.resolver.configs.ec2_resolver.Min` - The min port to use for clients to connect.
`app.resolver.configs.ec2_resolver.Max` - The max port to use for clients to connect.

_For this demo, min and max port should be the same, and be the port your server runs on. If you are following this demo, it should be `7777`_

> Also set is the `app.event_source.use` field, which is `catena_api_event_source.` If your server implements the [Catena Server Manager](https://github.com/CatenaTools/catena-tools-core/blob/main/Protos/api/v1/catena_server_manager.proto) interface
> it can make requests to this backend.

> After which you can launch the sidecar using `cmd.exe`

Reviewer 2: > using `cmd.exe`

Some users may need more clarity/specific instructions.

```
sidecar-windows-amd64.exe
```

At this point you should see the sidecar start up. It will resolve connection details and make requests on behalf of the game server. Our lyra demo is setup to request matches through the sidecar.

> If you don't want to interface with the sidecar or want the quickest path to a working setup, the sidecar can pretend to be a server and request matches on behalf of your server. To do this, simply change `app.event_source.use` to `virtual_server_event_source`. This tells the sidecar to act as a server and request new matches
> every 5 seconds. So long as your server is listening on port 7777 clients will be able to connect to your server.
> 
> If you restart the sidecar with this config, you will see it requesting matches repeatedly.
> 
> See [Match Broker](Match-Broker.md) to read about how Catena manages servers.

## Testing it out

Next we will download the sample game and test it out. In this case we will use a prebuilt version of the catena lyra demo. It can be found [here](https://catena-public-content.s3.amazonaws.com/WindowsClient.zip).

> So long as the server is still running from the last example`, we simply need to launch the game with a few arguments, and we're good to go.

Reviewer 2: Stray tick `

Grab a logged-in session token. (Run these in git bash)

```
SESSION_ID_1=$(curl -D - -sS --location '$CATENA_URL/api/v1/authentication/login' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
"provider": "PROVIDER_UNSAFE",
"payload": "test01"
}' | grep "session-*" | cut -d' ' -f2)

curl --location '$CATENA_URL/api/v1/accounts' \
--header "session-id: $SESSION_ID_1" \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{}'

echo $SESSION_ID

# session-ca8fb665-69df-462f-941e-3341275fd91c
```

Launch the game

```
LyraGame.exe -BackendURL $CATENA_URL -session-id $SESSION_ID -networkversionoverride=1234
```

> From here, you can navigate through Play Lyra -> Matchmaking -> Elimination. You should see your game enter matchmkaing.

Reviewer 2: typo: "matchmkaing"

# Quickstart: Running Your Game With Catena

In this quickstart guide we will walk through how to set up and run your game on your own infrastructure using Catena Tools. 
Through this guide you will set up a backend, basic fleet manager, along with a game client and game server. This is a __Static Fleet Management Solution.__ 
This means you will have to manually provision servers, but they will report themselves to the backend.

> This tutorial will use the following Catena Components to support a Multiplayer Workflow.
>   * [Match Broker](Match-Broker.md)
>   * [Server Manager](Server-Manager.md)
>   * [Sidecar](Sidecar.md)
>   * [Matchmaking](Matchmaking.md)
>   * Infrastructure Templates

## Overview

By the end of this quickstart, you will be able to run your game, or a sample game in a multiplayer/online environment using AWS. Players will be able to:
1. Log into your game
2. Form a Party
3. Request a Match
4. Connect to a Server
5. Play a game

## Prerequisites

What you will need before following the steps in this guide.

* Access to Catena Tools
* A Game with a client/dedicated game server model or the [Catena Lyra Demo](https://github.com/catenaTools/catena-lyra-demo)

> * The Catena Tools [AWS Infrastructure Template](https://github.com/CatenaTools/infrastructure/tree/main/AWS/catena-core)

Reviewer 3: This link looks broken - should be https://github.com/CatenaTools/infrastructure/tree/main/aws/catena-core

powershell_deploy_command = "$env:GIT_SSH_COMMAND='ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa -o IdentitiesOnly=yes'; git push dokku main"
unix_deploy_command = "GIT_SSH_COMMAND='ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa -o IdentitiesOnly=yes' git push dokku main"
windows_deploy_command = "set \"GIT_SSH_COMMAND=ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa -o IdentitiesOnly=yes\" && git push dokku main"
catena_url = "https://platform.dev.catenatools.com"
```

These outputs will be used to deploy the platform to your newly configured instance.

> The rest of this tutorial will use the environment variable `$CATENA_URL`. Set it to the value of the catena_url output.
> ```bash
> export CATENA_URL="https://platform.dev.catenatools.com"
> ```

### Install Catena

Installing Catena is as easy as doing a git push.

Start by cloning the `catena-tools-core` repo:

**Git Bash**
```bash
git clone git@github.com:CatenaTools/catena-tools-core.git
cd catena-tools-core/
```

Then add a new remote and do a git push, this will deploy the `HEAD` of the repo. The command to do so is the value of the `add_doku_remote_command` output. The push command is platform specific, use the `{powershell,unix,windows}_deploy_command` output above.

**Git Bash**
```bash

> git remote add dokku dokku@dev.catenatools.com:platform

Reviewer: Until we set up the source file, we'll want to call out when commands will need to be swapped out. I.e.:

```
git remote add dokku dokku@dev.catenatools.com:platform ## Replace this with the "add_dokku_remote_command" output by Terraform
git push dokku HEAD:main ## Replace this with your platform's deploy command
```

remote: #3 DONE 0.4s
remote:
remote: #4 [internal] load .dockerignore
remote: #4 transferring context: 51B done
remote: #4 DONE 0.0s

### Truncated for Brevity

=====> Application deployed:
       http://platform.dev.catenatools.com
       https://platform.dev.catenatools.com

To jlyon1.catenatools.com:platform
 * [new branch]      HEAD -> main
```

Now we're all set! 

> You can update your platform the same way, simply commit the changes and push them to the `main` branch on the dokku remote. The server will automatically build and deploy your changes with no downtime.

You can test your platform by logging in:

**Git Bash**
```Bash
SESSION_ID=$(curl -D - -sS --location '$CATENA_URL/api/v1/authentication/login' \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data '{
      "provider": "PROVIDER_UNSAFE",
      "payload": "test53"
  }' | grep "session-*" | cut -d' ' -f2)

curl --location '$CATENA_URL/api/v1/accounts' \
--header "session-id: $SESSION_ID" \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{}'

# {"account":{"id":"account-f378e3c2-8760-4059-ba91-69f5343dfb48","displayName":"test53","authRole":"user","metadata":{},"providers":["PROVIDER_UNSAFE"]}}
```

> The full postman collection can be found [here](https://github.com/CatenaTools/catena-tools-core/tree/main/scripts). Set the http-host environment variable to your domain prior to use.

Reviewer: postman -> Postman

        to_port     = 3389
        protocol    = "tcp"
        cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"]
    }

    ingress {
        description = "RDP UDP Traffic"
        from_port   = 3389
        to_port     = 3389
        protocol    = "udp"
        cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"]
    }

```

Next plan and apply your infrastructure

```
terraform plan -var-file="vars.tfvar" 
terraform apply -var-file="vars.tfvar"
```

Once Terraform finishes, you can go to the AWS EC2 Console, click your instance, and click "Connect to instance." Under the RDP tab, download the
Remote Desktop File. Then click "Get Password" and paste in the private key from the keypair you created previously.

At this point you can connect to the Windows server using RDP by opening the file and logging into the machine with the "Administrator" account and password
from the AWS console.

At this point you should download and prepare to run your game on the server. Instructions for the Lyra Demo are below.

<procedure title="Lyra Game Server Installation" id="lyra_setup" collapsible="true">
    <p>These instructions use the <a href="https://github.com/catenatools/catena-lyra-demo">catena-lyra-demo</a> server.</p>

>     <step>Download the server onto the machine. The download can be found <a href="https://catena-public-content.S3.amazonaws.com/WindowsServer.zip">here.</a></step>

Reviewer: Last big comment that just occurred to me. We may want to provide some instructions for copying local files to their remote desktop/remote machine if they're not going to be using Lyra.

Linux: `scp`
Windows: https://serverfault.com/questions/150369/how-to-copy-files-to-amazon-ec2-windows-instance-from-my-local-machine

<step>
Press <shortcut>Ctrl+R</shortcut> or Start -> Run
</step>
<step>Type cmd.exe and click run</step>
<step>Change to the directory you are running the sidecar from <code>cd C:\Path\To\sidecar-windows-amd64.exe</code></step>
<step>Launch the sidecar <code>sidecar-windows-amd64.exe</code></step>
</procedure>

At this point you should see the sidecar start up. It will resolve connection details and make requests on behalf of the game server. Our lyra demo is setup to request matches through the sidecar.

> If you don't want to interface with the sidecar or want the quickest path to a working setup, the sidecar can pretend to be a server and request matches on behalf of your server. To do this, simply change `app.event_source.use` to `virtual_server_event_source`. This tells the sidecar to act as a server and request new matches
> every 5 seconds. So long as your server is listening on port 7777 clients will be able to connect to your server.
> 
> If you restart the sidecar with this config, you will see it requesting matches repeatedly.
> 
> See [Match Broker](Match-Broker.md) to read about how Catena manages servers.

## Testing it out

> Next we will download the sample game and test it out. In this case we will use a prebuilt version of the catena lyra demo. It can be found [here](https://catena-public-content.s3.amazonaws.com/WindowsClient.zip).

Reviewer: catena lyra demo -> Catena Lyra Demo

(The whole tutorial should get a pass on capitalization. Not the end of the world, but is good for correctness)

So long as the server is still running from the last example, we simply need to launch the game with a few arguments, and we're good to go.

Grab a logged-in session token. (Run these in git bash)

```
SESSION_ID_1=$(curl -D - -sS --location '$CATENA_URL/api/v1/authentication/login' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
"provider": "PROVIDER_UNSAFE",
"payload": "test01"
}' | grep "session-*" | cut -d' ' -f2)

> curl --location '$CATENA_URL/api/v1/accounts' \

Reviewer: May be worth a note on why this second call is necessary.

--header "session-id: $SESSION_ID_1" \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{}'

> echo $SESSION_ID

Reviewer: We're assigning `SESSION_ID_1` but querying `SESSION_ID` here.

# session-ca8fb665-69df-462f-941e-3341275fd91c
```

Launch the game

```

> LyraGame.exe -BackendURL $CATENA_URL -session-id $SESSION_ID -networkversionoverride=1234

Reviewer: Do we have a configuration we can run Lyra in that will automatically obtain a session rather than requiring manually obtaining it ahead of time?

Author: it actually _should_ do this by default

![access_key_quickstart](access_key_quickstart.png)

> Next, configure terraform to provision an ec2 instance where we will run the server. we have provided a template for this in the `aws/ec2-gameserver` directory of the infrastructure repo.

Reviewer 2: typo: "we" -> "We"
